[DOCS] Data stream migration API (#65017)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/indices/migrate-to-data-stream.asciidoc

++++

Migrates an existing alias with its indices to a new
<<data-streams,data stream>>.

Data streams require a matching <<indices-templates,index template>>.
See <<set-up-a-data-stream>>.

////
[source,console]
----
POST idx1/_doc/
{
    "message" : "testing",
    "@timestamp" : "2020-01-01"
}

POST idx2/_doc/
{
    "message" : "testing2",
    "@timestamp" : "2020-01-01"
}

POST /_aliases
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "idx1",
        "alias": "my-logs",
        "is_write_index": true
      }
    },
    {
      "add": {
        "index": "idx2",
        "alias": "my-logs"
      }
    }
  ]
}

PUT /_index_template/template
{
  "index_patterns": ["my-logs*"],
  "data_stream": { }
}
----
////

[source,console]
----
POST /_data_stream/_migrate/my-logs
----
// TEST[continued]

////
[source,console]
-----------------------------------
DELETE /_data_stream/my-logs
DELETE /_index_template/template
-----------------------------------
// TEST[continued]
////

[[indices-migrate-to-data-stream-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_data_stream/_migrate/<alias>`

[[indices-migrate-to-data-stream-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<alias>`::
+
--

> (Required, string) Name of the alias to be migrated to a data stream. The
> alias's indices will be hidden and converted to backing indices for the
> new data stream. The alias will be removed, and the new data stream will
> be named `<alias>`.
> 
> Aliases must meet the following criteria to be migrated to a data stream:
> 
> - Must have an index defined as the <<aliases-write-index,write index>>
> - All indices associated with the alias must have a mapping for the
> `@timestamp` field of type `date` or `date_nanos`
> - Must not have any <<filtered,filters>>
> - Must not have any <<aliases-routing,custom routing>>

Reviewer: I'd reorder this slightly so the required criteria comes first. I also added a sentence about the write index after conversion.
```suggestion
(Required, string)
Name of the index alias to convert to a data stream. The alias must meet the
following criteria:

- The alias has a <<aliases-write-index,write index>>.
- All indices for the alias have a `@timestamp` field mapping of a `date` or `date_nanos` field type.
- The alias has no <<filtered,filters>>.
- The alias does not use <<aliases-routing,custom routing>>.

{es} removes the alias and creates a data stream with the same name. The alias's
indices become hidden backing indices for the stream. The alias's write index
becomes the stream's write index.
```
